# TTM4905 Communication Technology, Master's Thesis

## General information

course description number of credits: 30 expected workload: approx. 800
hours

## Pre-requisites

### Remaining courses/exams

### Working experience

## Start-up phase

### Selection of a thesis topic

### Formal registration and start-up

### Confidentiality and delayed publication

### Submission of the final problem description

-   cf. the compulsory problem description one month (putting in
    approximately as much work as in the project)

## Supervision

### Roles and responsibilities

@TODO Roles and responsilibilities taking from the master's agreement

## Equipment and requests for funding

## Writing the thesis

### template

### references and plagiarism

### Reuse of text from the pre-project report

**(adapted from a note originally written by Prof. Bjarne E. Helvik on
Feb 12, 2020)** @TODO minor editions

There have been questions concerning the reuse of text from pre-project
(TTM4502) report in the master's thesis. Many students put a lot of
effort into the pre-project report and find it challenging to provide a
well-formulated and compact presentation of the motivation, related work
and others, that should go into the project report. Hence, they would
like to reuse parts of their project report and consider a rewrite to be
a “waste of effort”. On the other hand, students are aware that such a
reuse of text might be considered as “plagiarism”. The objective of this
section is to provide guidelines and some background information.

The short version is that the problem of not being allowed to reuse text
from the project report, without risking being accused for plagiarism,
is more of a conceived problem than a real one. Reuse of own material is
ok as long as it is evident that it is reused.

1.  Background

    -   Plagiarism is the process or practice of using another person's
        ideas or work and pretending that it is your own.
    -   "Self-plagiarism" refers to the reuse of own material without
        explicitly stating that this material is made available,
        published or used earlier. It is fundamentally different from
        plagiarism since it does not involve "stealing" from others, but
        refers to presenting something as new work when it is not.
    -   Self-plagiarism is illegal if there are restrictions on reusing
        the material, for instance:
        1.  The copyright is owned by others than the author. This is
            the case for most publications authored by scientific staff
            at the department.
        2.  Work done by students to complete a course or degree cannot
            be reused for a later course or degree (if this is done, it
            is considered as cheating; §6-4
            \[https://www.ntnu.no/documents/16067/1269570488/Forskrifter.pdf/9511b9be-5258-4549-9c1e-b4fd69c99ace-
            @TODO - link to lovdata\] (in Norwegian)).
    -   Self-plagiarism in reporting research is considered as
        unethical, also when it is not illegal.
    -   Keep in mind that plagiarism, including self-plagiarism, is not
        restricted to the reuse of text, it also encompasses the
        semantics of the content, including the lines of reasoning, the
        ideas, the results.

2.  In the master's thesis

    -   Relevant text from the project report may be reused if it is
        clearly and explicitly stated that it is adopted from the
        project report. The best way of doing this is with
    -   Self-plagiarism in the master's thesis of project work, that is
        reuse of material without explicitly stating it, is not
        acceptable as per the study regulations.
    -   Tools for checking the similarity between texts are available.
        These will however not be misused; a student will not be
        automatically accused of self-plagiarism if a few identical
        sentences pop-up in a (revised) text that contains a substantial
        amount of new content.

3.  Two additional points

    It causes confusion that the concept of plagiarism is used
    differently in copyright legislation and in research ethics.
    Rewriting one’s own text may be (and is) used to avoid copyright
    infringements. However, if the content is the same, it is still
    considered as self-plagiarism from a research-ethical perspective.
    Hence, rewriting well-formulated text in transferring material from
    the project report to the master's thesis just to change the wording
    is a waste of effort. Even if rewording is done, the original work
    should still be cited.

    Reusing text and unaltered content from the project report (with
    citations) may seem a good way to get started. However, during the
    work on the thesis, the student will most likely get a revised,
    deeper and/or more extensive insight into the topics that he/she
    explored in the project. Hence, it is highly recommended to take a
    critical look on what is “reused”, and to amend it based on the new
    insights. In most cases, this will result in such a substantial
    amount of new content, it will not be deemed as self-plagiarism in
    the case the self-citation is omitted. (Note also that not amending
    text from the project report may leave the impression that no
    progress has been made on these subtopics after 20 weeks of work.)

    @check project/pre-project

4.  Examples of how self-citations may be stated

    1.  Referring to formulation of research questions:

        Much focus in the project work is put on the research
        questions(s)/objective formulation. If these are kept unaltered
        after the feedback on the project report and the initial work on
        the master's thesis - it may be stated as follows: "The research
        questions(s) / objective(s) from the project is/are maintained
        \[NesYY\]. \<\<formulation of the research question(s) /
        objective(s)>\>".

    2.  Referring to a reused subsection, e.g. related work:

        Reuse of a complete subsection may be formulated as: "The state
        of art and related work were reviewed, and an identification of
        the relevant background material were carried out in the project
        preceding this thesis \[NesYY\]. No relevant new material was
        found during the work on the thesis. The presentation from the
        project report is included below. \<\<Text on related
        work/SoA/etc.>\>".

        Reuse of a substantial part of a subsection may be formulated
        as: "The state of art and related work were reviewed, and an
        identification of the relevant background material were carried
        out in the project preceding this thesis \[NesYY\]. This is
        amended with discussion of a few papers that have become
        available (been studied, been published, or…) after the project.
        \<\<Text on related work/SoA/etc.>\>".

5.  LaTeX bibentry for the project report



```latex
@techreport{Nescio:Title-of-project-report:YYYY, 
    author = {Nomen Nescio}, 
    institution = {Department of Information Security and Communication Technology, 
                     NTNU – Norwegian University of Science and Technology},
      month = {Dec.},
      title = {Title of project report},
      type = {Project report in {TTM4502}},
      year = {YYYY}
}
```

    which will

    \[NesYY\] Nomen Nescio. Title of project report. Project report in
    TTM4502, Department of Information Security and Communication
    Technology, NTNU – Norwegian University of Science and Technology,
    Dec. YYYY.

## Oral presentation

## Request for extension or leave of absence

## Submission and after

-   evaluation, diploma, complaint
-   case when if fail, 2nd and last chance
-   siv.ing. ringen

## Evaluation process

### Roles and responsibilities

(Based on the recommendations made in 2021 by the working group on
processing time for the evaluation of master's theses at the IE-Faculty)

1.  Main supervisor (a.k.a. responsible professor)

    -   Shall meet with the student and the co-supervisor at least once
        a month
    -   Shall approve the final problem description to be submitted by
        the student(s) within a month after the start
    -   Cannot grant an extension to the student(s)
    -   @TODO NSD? and other things see intro slides from BEH
    -   Shall find an external examiner and have an agreement with
        him/her that he/she will undertake the job and commit to submit
        his/her assessment within the grading deadline.
    -   Shall fill in and submit the "Master's thesis - supervisor
        information to the evaluation committee" form to the
        department's administration.

    @TODO revoir le titre et le lien vers le document @TODO add
    co-supervisor is responsible for the "daily" supervision of the
    student

    -   Shall normally meet weekly with the student(s)

    @TODO add student shall

2.  Head of department (formally, possibly delegated to the deputy head
    of department for education and/or level-4 unit leaders)

    -   Shall appoint the evaluation committee and ensure that the
        sensors, both internal and external, are not being overloaded.
    -   Shall follow it up the with the examiners if the deadlines are
        not respected.

3.  The internal examiner

    -   Is not the main supervisor
    -   Is also the administrator of the evaluation committee and in
        this quality:
    -   Shall contact the external sensor examiner prior to the
        evaluation work\*\*\*@TODO
    -   Shall ensure progress in the evalution work and that the grading
        deadline is respected

4.  The department's administration

    -   Shall inform the main supervisor of his/her role and
        responsibilities and of the applicable deadlines
    -   Shall ensure that the external examiner is nominated and has
        access to the relevant systems
    -   Shall set up the evaluation committee in Inspera Assessment
    -   Shall inform the administrator of the evaluation committee of
        his/her role and responsibilities and of the applicable
        deadlines
    -   Shall make the form "Master's thesis - supervisor information to
        the evaluation committee" available to the evaluation committee
        and inform the evaluation committee of the actual grading
        deadline

### Timeline prior to and for the evaluation work

(Based on the recommendations made in 2021 by the working group on
processing time for the evaluation of master's theses at the IE-Faculty)

1.  Notations

    -   d   Original submission deadline, 20 weeks (26 in the case the
        student(s) is on exchange abroad) + 1 week for Easter/Christmas,
        if relevant, after startup
    -   D   Actual submission date
    -   d'  = min (d, D + 1 week), that is whichever occurs first

2.  Deadlines, tasks and responsibilities

    | Deadline                         | Task                                                                                                                                          | Responsible                          |
    |----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
    | d - 14 weeks                     | Informing the main supervisor of his/her role and responsibilities and of the applicable deadlines                                            | Dept. administration                 |
    | d - 8@TODO revoir with LKS weeks | Having an agreement with an external examiner and submitting his/her name and contact information to the department's adminisration           | Main supervisor                      |
    | d - 5 weeks                      | Selecting the internal evaluator                                                                                                              | Head of Dept.                        |
    |                                  | Checking that both the internal and external evaluator will not have to evaluate a too large number of theses                                 |                                      |
    | d - 4 weeks                      | Informing the administrator of the evaluation committee of his/her role and responsibilities and of the applicable deadlines                  | Dept. administration                 |
    | d - 4 weeks                      | Ordering access for the external evaluator, if necessary                                                                                      | Dept. administration                 |
    | d - 2 weeks                      | Setting up the evaluation committee in Inspera Assessment                                                                                     | Dept. administration                 |
    |                                  | Sending information about the master's thesis and the evaluation work to the evaluation committee with copy to the main supervisor, see below |                                      |
    | d'                               | Filling in and submitting the "Master's thesis - supervisor information to the evaluation committee" form to the department's administration. | Main supervisor                      |
    | d' + 1 week                      | Making the "Master's thesis - supervisor information to the evaluation committee" form available to the evaluation committee                  | Dept. administration                 |
    |                                  | Sending information about the actual 'D + 12 weeks' to the evaluation committee with copy to the main supervisor                              |                                      |
    | d' + 2 weeks                     |                                                                                                                                               | Administrator of the eval. committee |
    | D + 12 weeks                     | Completing the registration of the evaluation in Inspera Assessment                                                                           | Evaluation committee                 |

    And, in the case the student(s) register a formal complaint within 3
    weeks after receiving the grade

    1.  Information about the thesis and the evaluation work sent to the
        evaluation committee with copy to the main supervisor

        -   Thesis title and final project description
        -   Name and contact information of the main supervisor and of
            the examiners
        -   Information about the evaluation work, including:

             

### Registration of the grade in Inspera Assessment

@TODO add links to how to on Inspera Assessment

### Quality assurance

## Evaluation criteria and grading

-   Guidelines for the evaluation of master's thesis

-   generic description of the grades and grading scale using percentage
    points

-   Evaluation form (@spørsmål til FALKR - filer - er det meningen at de
    skal også til github eller skal de lastes opp et annet sted)

-   Quality assurance

## Relevant links

-   Course description <https://ntnu.edu/studies/TTM4905>
-   See also the course room on Blackboard
-   link to the resource on innsida

# TODO

`=` TODO LKS next week kan du sende en epost til hver ans `=`

FALKR

-   structure and general idea

-   big page vs lot of small

-   separation of the content for students and professors (there is some
    overlap)

-   last updated

-   table of contents

`=` diploma? Siv.ing. ringen?
